---
title: "CS6262 P1 Notes"
date: 2020-09-06T16:53:11Z
draft: true
toc: false
images:
tags:
  - tech
---

Project-1 was focused on penetration testing. It involved:
- Searching for vulnerable machines in same network
- Finding vulnerabilities
- Exploiting vulnerabilities (shellshock in this case)
- Gaining access to the system
- Privilege escalation
- Password cracking

## Searching for machines

`nmap`: nmap util does all heavy lifting. Its better to look at IP of your machine and then look for range of last octet in your IP. For eg. my IP was `10.0.2.15`, my search can be 10.0.2.0-255. `nmap` also search for open ports and service using those and also the OS details of the system.

## Finding vulnerabilities

`nmap` told that `10.0.2.4` was running ubuntu and had HTTP service running on port 80. It also had few TCP ports open. Port 80 was hosting CGI script which had shellshock vulnerability. Since while running CGI script every header or user-agent is evaluated as shell env variable, it exploits sending payload in header or user-agent so that while evaluating the env variable, we can trigger any shell script of target machine.

## Exploiting Shellshock

Shellshock allows arbitrary remote execution. With some special payload, it can allow executing any script on target machine. Payload can be as simple as `() {:;}; /bin/eject` where `() {:;};` is magic payload as bash enterprets any input start with `()` in a special way. In this case payload was:

`curl  -v http://<IP>/cgi-bin/shellshock.cgi -H "custom: () { ignored; }; echo Content-Type: text/html; echo; /bin/bash -c "<ANY COMMAND TO EXECUTE>"`

## Gaining access 

Since its quite hard to create payload everytime to expoit any vulnerability. There is utility called `msfconsole` which has many modules to perform any tasks to exploit such as searching for open ports or exploiting existing vulnerability. Here, to gain shell access of target machine using apache cgi bin vulnerability `exploit/multi/http/apache_mod_cgi_bash_env_exec` was used with payload `linux/x86/shell/reverse_tcp`

## Privilege escalation

Now that we have access to the machine but it is still as a user `www-data`. To do something more dangerous we would need more power. First step is to scout for binaries having setuid set. Setuid allows binary to run anything as an owner of that binary. If binary is allowing to execute any user specified binary, then effectively we can execute anything as that user. For eg. if `find` command has setuid set and owner is `shellshock-server` and as `find` allows executing anything with param `--exec` now we can execute anything as `shellshock-server` by doing `find ./ -exec /bin/sh \;`.

## Password cracking

If there are compressed files which are password protected, those can be cracked using John the ripper utility. To first download those files use `metrepreter` payload of exploit module used in gaining access. Then using `zip2john`, zip file can be converted to format which `jtr` understands. Sometimes the default wordlist may not be enough to crack the password. 
`cewl` can be used to create wordlist from a webpage. It can follow the links and create wordlist which can be used by `jtr` to crack the password. But password may involve some special chars and may not be straightforward word. `--rules` flag allow enabling such default word mangling rules.